[REVIEW] Externalized Kafka Datasource (#3504)
rapidsai/cudf: cpp/CMakeLists.txt

option(BUILD_SHARED_LIBS "Build shared libraries" ON)
option(BUILD_TESTS "Configure CMake to build tests" ON)
option(BUILD_BENCHMARKS "Configure CMake to build (google) benchmarks" OFF)

> option(BUILD_CUDATASOURCE "Configure CMake to build cuDatasource" OFF)

Reviewer: Similarly, this shouldn't be called `cuDataSource`. We'd want a separate library for each integration, so lets name it as such with `CUDF_KAFKA` or something similar.

    message(FATAL_ERROR "Apache Arrow not found, please check your settings.")
endif(ARROW_FOUND)

###################################################################################################
# - find librdkafka ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

find_path(RDKAFKA_INCLUDE "librdkafka"
        HINTS "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/include")
find_library(RDKAFKA_LIBRARY "rdkafka"
        HINTS "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/lib" "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/build")
find_library(RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY "rdkafka++"
        HINTS "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/lib" "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/build")

message(STATUS "RDKAFKA: RDKAFKA_LIBRARY set to ${RDKAFKA_LIBRARY}")
message(STATUS "RDKAFKA: RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY set to ${RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY}")
message(STATUS "RDKAFKA: RDKAFKA_INCLUDE set to ${RDKAFKA_INCLUDE}")

add_library(rdkafka SHARED IMPORTED ${RDKAFKA_LIBRARY})
if(RDKAFKA_INCLUDE AND RDKAFKA_LIBRARY)
    set_target_properties(rdkafka PROPERTIES IMPORTED_LOCATION ${RDKAFKA_LIBRARY})

> endif(RDKAFKA_INCLUDE AND RDKAFKA_LIBRARY)

Reviewer: create library for rdkafka++ as well

                    "${ZLIB_INCLUDE_DIRS}"
                    "${Boost_INCLUDE_DIRS}"
                    "${RMM_INCLUDE}"
                    "${DLPACK_INCLUDE}"

>                     "${RDKAFKA_INCLUDE}")

Reviewer: should include this target specifically to cudf instead of general include

                 "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}"
                 "${FLATBUFFERS_LIBRARY_DIR}"
                 "${GTEST_LIBRARY_DIR}"
                 "${RMM_LIBRARY}"

>                  "${RDKAFKA_LIBRARY}")

Reviewer: target specific link this

target_link_libraries(libNVText libNVStrings rmm cudart cuda)

# link targets for cuDF

> target_link_libraries(cudf NVCategory NVStrings rmm ${ARROW_CUDA_LIB_LINK} ${ARROW_LIB} ${RDKAFKA_LIBRARY} ${RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY} nvrtc cudart cuda ${ZLIB_LIBRARIES} ${Boost_LIBRARIES})

Reviewer: use library names instead of variables to PATHs of libraries

                   VERBATIM)

add_custom_target(docs_cudf DEPENDS CUDF_DOXYGEN)

####################################################################################################

> # - cuDatasource - OFF by default due to increased number of dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# - cudf_kafka - OFF by default due to increased number of dependencies
```

Author: thanks for catching, had simply overlooked this one

if(BUILD_CUDF_KAFKA)

    # cudf_kafka library
    add_library(libcudf_kafka
        libcudf_kafka/src/kafka_consumer.cpp
    )

    # Include paths

>     include_directories("${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/libcudf_kafka/include")

Reviewer: I think we need `RDKAFKA_INCLUDE` to be included as well as libcudf headers

Reviewer: We still need to add the libcudf includes somewhere

    set_target_properties(libcudf_kafka PROPERTIES BUILD_RPATH "\$ORIGIN")

    ###################################################################################################
    # cudf_kafka - librdkafka -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    find_path(RDKAFKA_INCLUDE "librdkafka" HINTS "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/include")
    find_library(RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY "rdkafka++" HINTS "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/lib" "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/build")

    message(STATUS "RDKAFKA: RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY set to ${RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY}")
    message(STATUS "RDKAFKA: RDKAFKA_INCLUDE set to ${RDKAFKA_INCLUDE}")

    target_link_libraries(libcudf_kafka ${RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY})

    ###################################################################################################
    # - cudf_kafka Install ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    target_link_libraries(libcudf_kafka cudf)

    install(TARGETS libcudf_kafka
            DESTINATION lib
            COMPONENT libcudf_kafka)

    install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/libcudf_kafka/include
            DESTINATION include

>             COMPONENT libcudf_kafka)

Reviewer: This looks like you're just dumping headers into the top level `include` directory for installation. We should likely install the headers into either a `cudf_kafka` directory or into the `cudf` directory from libcudf install in a `kafka` subfolder or something similar.

    ###################################################################################################
    # cudf_kafka - librdkafka -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    find_path(RDKAFKA_INCLUDE "librdkafka" HINTS "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/include")
    find_library(RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY "rdkafka++" HINTS "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/lib" "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/build")

    message(STATUS "RDKAFKA: RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY set to ${RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY}")
    message(STATUS "RDKAFKA: RDKAFKA_INCLUDE set to ${RDKAFKA_INCLUDE}")

    target_link_libraries(libcudf_kafka ${RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY})
    include_directories("${RDKAFKA_INCLUDE}")

    ###################################################################################################
    # - cudf_kafka Install ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    target_link_libraries(libcudf_kafka cudf)

    install(TARGETS libcudf_kafka
            DESTINATION libcudf_kafka/lib
            COMPONENT libcudf_kafka)

    install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/libcudf_kafka/include
            DESTINATION libcudf_kafka/include

>             COMPONENT libcudf_kafka)

Reviewer: This is still incorrect. We should install into `include`, but that install should land in a `cudf_kafka` folder for example. I'd suggest making the directory structure `cpp/libcudf_kafka/include/cudf_kafka/kafka_consumer.hpp`. And then this command can be updated to:
```
    install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/libcudf_kafka/include
            DESTINATION include
            COMPONENT libcudf_kafka)
```

        libcudf_kafka/kafka/src/kafka_consumer.cpp
    )

    # Include paths
    include_directories("${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/libcudf_kafka/kafka/include")
    
    # Rename installation to proper name for later finding
    set_target_properties(libcudf_kafka PROPERTIES OUTPUT_NAME "cudf_kafka")
    set_target_properties(libcudf_kafka PROPERTIES BUILD_RPATH "\$ORIGIN")

    ###################################################################################################
    # cudf_kafka - librdkafka -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    find_path(RDKAFKA_INCLUDE "librdkafka" HINTS "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/include")
    find_library(RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY "rdkafka++" HINTS "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/lib" "$ENV{RDKAFKA_ROOT}/build")

    message(STATUS "RDKAFKA: RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY set to ${RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY}")
    message(STATUS "RDKAFKA: RDKAFKA_INCLUDE set to ${RDKAFKA_INCLUDE}")

    target_link_libraries(libcudf_kafka ${RDKAFKA++_LIBRARY})

    ###################################################################################################
    # - cudf_kafka Install ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

>     target_link_libraries(cudf libcudf_kafka)

Reviewer: This is backwards. You're linking libcudf to libcudf_kafka instead of libcudf_kafka to libcudf.

Author: I was almost certain this would be `cudf` as the <target> and link `libcudf_kafka` against the `cudf` <target> as an <item> as described here https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/target_link_libraries.html#libraries-for-a-target-and-or-its-dependents

Am I misinterpreting the docs?

Reviewer: I think you have it backwards. The way this is written currently, you're effectively adding `libcudf_kafka` as a dependency of `cudf` instead of `cudf` as a dependency of `libcudf_kafka`.

>     target_link_libraries(cudf libcudatasource)

Reviewer: libcudf shouldn't link against this, this should just link against libcudf

Author: Isn't that what this is doing? Linking `libcudf_kafka` against `cudf` so that `cudf` can invoke the custom datasource defined in `libcudf_kafka`?

Note: ^^ is after my latest pr with the updated names, github might show the original names so just wanted to point that out.

    install(TARGETS libcudf_kafka
            DESTINATION lib
            COMPONENT libcudf_kafka)

>     install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/libcudf_kafka/kafka/include

Reviewer: Given this is just a `libcudf_kafka` package now, should we just make this `libcudf_kafka/include`?

Author: If I understand correctly you are recommending just removing the `kafka` subdirectory of `libcudf_kafka` right? Just want to validate before making that change since that would be a couple of other places in the cmake scripts to change.

Reviewer: Yea, we're not trying to make a mega library of different IO sources here, we just want a kafka specific library. If we want additional data sources in the future they'll be additional libraries.

            DESTINATION include
            COMPONENT libcudatasource)

    add_custom_target(install_cudatasource
            COMMAND "${CMAKE_COMMAND}" -DCOMPONENT=libcudatsource -P "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/cmake_install.cmake"
            DEPENDS libcudatasource)

    ####################################################################################################
    # - cuDatasource Tests
    if(BUILD_TESTS)
        if(GTEST_FOUND)
            message(STATUS "Google C++ Testing Framework (Google Test) found in ${GTEST_ROOT}")
            include_directories(${GTEST_INCLUDE_DIR})
            add_subdirectory(${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/cudatasource/kafka/tests)
        else()
            message(AUTHOR_WARNING "Google C++ Testing Framework (Google Test) not found: automated tests are disabled.")
        endif(GTEST_FOUND)
    endif(BUILD_TESTS)
        
    message(STATUS "CUDATASOURCE_TEST_LIST set to: ${CUDATASOURCE_TEST_LIST}")

    add_custom_target(build_tests_cudatasource
                      DEPENDS ${CUDATASOURCE_TEST_LIST})

    add_custom_target(test_cudatasource

>                       COMMAND ctest -E "CUDATASOURCE"

Reviewer: This excludes the tests as opposed to including them.

Author: copy pasta. Will remove `-E` flag

                      DEPENDS build_tests_libcudf_kafka)

    ####################################################################################################
    # - cudf_kafka documentation
    add_custom_command(OUTPUT CUDF_KAFKA_DOXYGEN
                   WORKING_DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/libcudf_kafka/doxygen
                   COMMAND doxygen Doxyfile
                   VERBATIM)

    add_custom_target(docs_libcudf_kafka DEPENDS CUDF_KAFKA_DOXYGEN)

> endif(BUILD_CUDF_KAFKA)

Author: Sorry, I changed to a different machine when I made this latest commit and my settings for automatically adding a newline were not on that machine. Just added them.
